<!-- This README file was generated by the FlowLauncher C# Dotnet Plugin template (https://github.com/Flow-Launcher/dotnet-template), then edited manually-->

Flow.Launcher.Plugin.Add2Path
==================

A [Flow Launcher](https://github.com/Flow-Launcher/Flow.Launcher) plugin
for managing your PATH environment variable.

`pm install add2path`

Version 2.0, which features new options, important bug fixes, many improvements, and a complete overhaul,
is now out! Here's a rundown of the [crucial changes](#new-in-version-20).

> [!Warning]
> Dealing with environment variables is dangerous and can break things.
Though I have tried to make this plugin as safe to use as I can, I cannot guarantee that it won't break or
corrupt your PATH environment variable.
>
> **Use at your own risk. I am not responsible if this plugin breaks things for you.**

<br>
<br>

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Editing system PATH requires administrator priveledges.
> This means that Flow Launcher will show a popup requesting administrator priveledges
> every time this plugin is used with the `!system` flag.
> To make FlowLauncher always run as administrator, see [Running as Administrator](#running-as-administrator).

# Usage

All commands operate on the user PATH by default. Supply the `!system` flag (before the argument, if there is one) to operate on the system PATH -
for more info, see [System PATH](#system-path).

- Add to PATH: `path add <!system or leave blank> <folder path>`
- Remove from PATH: `path remove <!system or leave blank> <folder path>`
- List all entries in PATH and copy to clipboard: `path list <!system or leave blank>`
- Get current PATH value (semicolon delimited) and copy to clipboard: `path get <!system or leave blank>`

#### Backup and Restore (for more info, see [Backup and Restore](#backup-and-restore)):

- Manually backup the PATH: `path backup <!system or leave blank>`
- Restore the PATH from the last automatic backup: `path restore <!system or leave blank>`
- Restore the PATH from the last manual backup: `path restore !manual <!system or leave blank>`

> [!NOTE]: There is no `set` command because I can't think of any practical use
> for it. Plus, completely overwriting your PATH can break a lot of things.
> If you really want to do it anyway, you can do it manually via the
> "Edit the system environment variables" screen.

## Backup and Restore

Every time you make a change to the PATH variable using Add2Path, a backup will be created. This backup will persist until the next
change is made with Add2Path.
To restore the backup, use:

`path restore <!system or leave blank>`

You can also create a manual backup. This backup is independent of the automatic one, and will persist until the next manual backup.

`path backup <!system or leave blank>`

To restore the manual backup, use the `!manual` flag:

`path restore !manual <!system or leave blank>`

> [!NOTE]
> Make sure to be careful whether you're backing up / restoring the **user** PATH or the **system** PATH.

> [!NOTE]
> The Windows `PATH` value is stored in the registry as `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Environment\Path`, and
> `HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\Environment\Path` for the system path.
> Add2Path's Backups are written under the same keys, with the entry names `PathBackup` / `PathBackupManual`.
>
> These values are stored in these locations they are logical places, but the registry keys shouldn't accessed by anything besides
> Add2Path.

## New in Version 2.0

### System PATH

Version 2.0 adds the ability to specify **system** PATH.
While **user** PATH remains the default, you can now add `!system` to the query, and the command will operate on the system PATH rather than the user PATH. This works for all commands.

> For example, instead of `path add C:\foo`, you can type `path add !system C:\foo`.

The `!sytem` flag is case-sensitive. Make sure there are no spaces in it, and that it is a separate term (surrounded with spaces).

The `!system` flag must appear directly after the command (e.g. `add` or `get`), or else it will be interpreted as part of the
inputted folder path - for example, `path add C:\foo !system` will not trigger the flag; instead, the literal path `C:\foo !system` will be added to the user PATH.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Editing system PATH requires administrator privileges.
> This means that Flow Launcher will show a popup requesting administrator privileges
> every time this plugin is used with the `!system` flag.
> To make FlowLauncher always run as administrator, see [Running as Administrator](#running-as-administrator).

#### Other Changes

Besides the addition of the `!system` flag, several major changes are included in this version. These include:
- An entirely new and reworked interface that makes using the plugin more intuitive
- A [batch script](Configure_FlowLauncher_AlwaysRunAsAdmin.bat) to configure FlowLauncher to always run as administrator (to
  allow editing of the system PATH)
- Several major bug fixes (including input sanitization)
- Improved error handling and messages
- Folder path validation
- A feature to avoid and fix corruption of the PATH environmental variable.
Along with all these new features, the code has been fully refactored and improved.

# Running as Administrator

### Finding FlowLauncher exe
By default, FlowLauncher's executable (`Flow.Launcher.exe`) should be installed to `%LocalAppData%\FlowLauncher`.
However, this may differ if you have the portable version installed.

### Manual Setup

Once you've found Flowlauncher's executable file, you can configure it to always run as administrator:
1. Open the containing folder (again, should be `%LocalAppData%\FlowLauncher`) in file manager
2. Right-click the file (`Flow.Launcher.exe`) and select `Properties`
3. Go to the `Compatibility` tab
4. Check `Run this program as an administrator`
5. Hit `OK`

Or, if you want the official Microsoft guide:
`https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/windows-11/how-to-run-app-as-administrator-by-default-in-windows-11/m-p/3033704`


### Command-line Setup

Here's a [script](Configure_FlowLauncher_AlwaysRunAsAdmin.bat) I hacked together with ChatGPT
that automatically configures FlowLauncher to always run as administrator.

# Todo

- Commands to backup (`path backup <!system or leave blank>`) and restore (`path restore <!system or leave blank>`) PATH
using a separate environmental variable

# Credits

The [Plugin Icon](icon.png) is a screenshot of the icon Windows shows you when you go to the Start Menu and type `Edit the sytem environment variables`.
